hello this is chef john from food wishes
comm with lamb shank vindaloo that's
right I get a lot of complaints how come
you never do Indian food it's because
I'm scared I don't have a lot of
experience with it I love to eat it but
I thought I would give this one of my
favorites to try this very spicy lamb
type curry dish so I hope I got it close
you Indian cuisine experts will be the
judge so here we go
alright so step one here I'm going to
put four lamb shanks in a plastic bag
you need to get marinated overnight
before we start the dish so I'm gonna
place those in and then into a bowl I'm
going to pour some cider vinegar some
vegetable oil some salt and then
something called tamarind I'm using a
tamarind concentrate and we'll talk a
little bit about that on the blog but
it's a very tart sour kind of citrus
like ingredient alright I started mixing
that up and then I realized I never put
the garm masala in which is a blend of
Indian spices we've used that before we
like it alright so I'm gonna mix that in
and that's basically the marinade so
we're going to pour that over the lamb
shanks we're going to seal up that bag
really well alright just to confuse you
I put mine in a second bag as I thought
I had a leak we're gonna squeeze out as
much air as possible so the meat is
immersed in the marinade and then we're
going to put that in the fridge
overnight not a bad idea to turn it over
once in a while
alright the next day I'm going to pull
it out of the bag I'm going to place it
on an oiled foil lined sheet pan don't
throw away the marinade by the way
that's going in the stew later so just
reserve the marinade I'm going to salt
those generously on both sides and we're
going to brown those in a very hot oven
450 for 15 or 20 minutes until they're
nice and brown we're going to pull those
out and reserve them til needed next up
in a blender we're going to add a lot of
garlic a lot of ginger some cherry
tomatoes a nice big onion and a little
bit of water we're going to pulse that
on and off until we have a nice smooth
puree and it kind of looks like a
delicious strawberry smoothie and yet
it's so the opposite of that so just set
that aside and it's back over to the
stove where we're going to start the
actual vindaloo so we're going to put a
heavy Dutch oven on medium-high heat and
I'm going to put in some clarified
butter now this is supposed to be
something called ghee which is basically
a clarified butter but clarified butter
we'll work alright so I want to put my
butter in I'm gonna throw roughly
chopped onion in there with a big pinch
of salt and we're gonna Brown this and
I'm not talking golden brown I'm talking
almost golden black that's going to add
sweetness and a depth of color to the
sauce so just keep cooking them and
right there you're thinking that's
probably good it's not let them go
further okay while those are browning
I'm going to get my spice blend together
which is cumin cinnamon black pepper
cayenne and a lot of it dry mustard and
paprika okay and all that will be on the
blog of course alright we're going to go
back over the stove check the onions and
now we're talking that's what we want
nicely browned very dark edges perfect
and at that point we're going to back
the heat down to medium and dump in the
spices and we're going to kind of toast
the spices in that hot butter and that
really wakes up the flavor and it really
really adds an extra dimension which I
guess would be the fifth dimension but
who's keeping tract and that only needs
to cook for about two minutes but it
really does make a difference all right
after that we're going to go ahead and
dump in the marinade that was left over
from the bag of lamb alright remember
that was the cider and the tamarind and
the oil all right so I'm going to dump
that in and then we're going to dump in
the mixture from the blender the onion
the tomato the ginger the garlic we're
going to give that a stir we're going to
raise the heat up to high we want to
bring this up to a simmer and before we
put the lamb back in we're going to go
ahead and add a little bit of brown
sugar all right just to balance out that
acidity and heat
alright so stir that in and then we can
place our lamb back in and if using a
similar size pot you should have enough
liquid to just almost come up to the top
it doesn't have to be totally covered
this is going to stew for three hours
and we're going to turn these several
times so as long as you have that much
liquid you're okay if you need to add
another splash of water don't be afraid
don't forget you can always reduce
sauces later
so once the lamb goes in I want you to
turn the heat down to low I want you to
cover it tightly and I want you to
simmer that very slowly on very low heat
for about three hours all right not a
bad idea to turn it over once in a while
and all
you're trying to do and why there's no
way to screw up the cooking part of this
you're just going to simmer it until the
meats tender see how that fork goes
right into that meat that's done all
right so like I said it's going to take
about three hours but don't quote me on
it could take two and a half could take
four plan accordingly all right at that
point I'm gonna go ahead and remove the
lamb from the pot you can just cover it
with foil while we finish the sauce and
finishing the sauce means two things the
old skimmin season so we're going to
turn the heat up a little bit we want to
bring this back to a simmer and we need
to skim off all that fat there's a ton
of it just take your ladle
and skim all the fat off before you
serve it all right and besides de fat if
I in the top the other thing you should
do is taste for seasoning although I
highly doubt you're gonna have to do
much adjusting but you know what Chuck
just in case maybe add a little salt and
that's it go ahead and throw your lamb
shank on a plate I'm serving mine next
to some lentils and rice I'm going to
spoon over that incredible sauce I'm
gonna garnish with some whole cilantro
leaves and there you go authenticity
notwithstanding this was a super
delicious incredibly tasty very spicy
exciting dinner
totally fork-tender should just fall
right off the bone and just a very
complex flavor spicy sweet sour aromatic
and that beautiful subtly gamy lamb just
the absolute perfect meat for this so I
really really hope you give this a try
head over to food wishes comm for all
the ingredients and more info as usual
and as always enjoy
you